=pod

=head1 NAME

l2tpns - Layer 2 tunneling protocol network server (LNS)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<l2tpns> [-B<d>] [-B<v>] [-B<c> I<file>] [-B<h> I<hostname>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<l2tpns> is a daemon for terminating layer 2 tunneling protocol (L2TP: RFC2661) sessions.

B<l2tpns> is a complete L2TP implementation. It supports the LAC, LNS, PPPOE and DHCPv6 server.

Once running, B<l2tpns> may be controlled by telnetting to port 23 on the machine running the daemon and with the B<nsctl> utility.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d>	Detach from terminal and fork into the background. By default l2tpns will stay in the foreground.

.

=item B<-v>	Increase verbosity for debugging. Can be used multiple times.

.

=item B<-c> I<file>

Specify configuration file.

=item B<-h> I<hostname>

Force hostname to I<hostname>.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item I</etc/l2tpns/startup-config>

The default configuration file.

=item I</etc/l2tpns/ip_pool>

IP address pool configuration.

=item I</etc/l2tpns/users>

Username/password configuration for access to admin interface.

=back

=head1 SIGNALS

=over

=item B<SIGHUP> Reload the config from disk and re-open log file.

.

=item B<SIGTERM>, B<SIGINT>

Stop process. Tunnels and sessions are not terminated. This signal should be used to stop l2tpns on a cluster node where there are other machines to continue handling traffic.

=item B<SIGQUIT>

Shut down tunnels and sessions, exit process when complete.

=back

=head1 MANAGED RADIUS ATTRIBUTE

=over

=item B<Ascend-Client-Primary-DNS>, B<Ascend-Client-Secondary-DNS>

Specifies a primary and secondary DNS server address to send to user.

=item B<Delegated-IPv6-Prefix>

Assign a network address IPv6 prefix to a user by DHCPv6.
 
=item B<Framed-IP-Address>

The address to be configured for the user (IPv4 address of the interface ppp).

=item B<Framed-Route>

provides routing information to be configured for the user.

=item B<Framed-IPv6-Route>

Has the same action as B<Delegated-IPv6-Prefix>. B<Delegated-IPv6-Prefix> is the correct one to use.

=item B<Framed-IPv6-Address>

IPv6 address to be assigned to the user by DHCPv6 (IPv6 address of the interface ppp).

=item B<Idle-Timeout>

disconnects the session if no data for more than B<Idle-Timeout> (in seconds).

=item B<Session-Timeout>

disconnects the user session when the time B<Session-Timeout> is reached (in seconds).

=item B<Tunnel-Type>, B<Tunnel-Medium-Type>, B<Tunnel-Server-Endpoint>, B<Tunnel-Password>, B<Tunnel-Assignment-Id>

attributes returned by the Radius of the remote LNS server (LAC functionality).

example, Radius that return the information of 2 remote LNS server with which must be open a L2TP TUNNEL:

=over

=item	B<Tunnel-Type>: 1 = L2TP

=item	B<Tunnel-Medium-Type>: 1 = IPv4

=item	B<Tunnel-Password>: 1 = "TheSecretL2TP"

=item	B<Tunnel-Server-Endpoint>: 1 = "88.xx.xx.x1"

=item	B<Tunnel-Assignment-Id>: 1 = "friendisp_lns1"

=item	B<Tunnel-Type>: 2 = L2TP

=item	B<Tunnel-Medium-Type>: 2 = IPv4

=item	B<Tunnel-Password>: 2 = "TheSecretL2TP"

=item	B<Tunnel-Server-Endpoint>: 2 = "88.xx.xx.x2"

=item	B<Tunnel-Assignment-Id>: 2 = "friendisp_lns2"

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<startup-config>(5), B<nsctl>(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Jonathan McDowell <noodles@earth.li> and Fernando Alves (fendo@sameswifi.fr), for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
